We could extract different aspects of information from the same object for different purpose, especially when making decisions. How is this cognitive flexibility implemented in brain? This paper approaches this big question by investigating how medial frontal cortex (MFC) selectively represent current task-related information and particularly, how MFC even retrieve the current task-related memory from hippocampus and amygdala (HA).
More specifically, this paper focus on two task: one is categorization task and the other is memory task in which patients are instructed to make binary (yes/no) decision based on the same image shown but for different purpose: “is this image a fruit?” or “have you seen this image before?”. From the single-unit spiking activity, they decode **five variables: task type (categorization/memory), response modality(button press/saccade), category(human face/monkey face/fruit/..), memory(new/old), choice(yes/no)** to quantify the representation of these behavior variables in MFC and HA, and importantly, the comparison of the representation of the other four variables between two different task types to measure how these two brain areas selectively represent information based on current task needs.
They found that: (1) MFC represents task type and choice strongly (90% decoding accuracy) without difference between different tasks, while HA not representing them. And the geometry of the representation for choice is different under two task types. (2) Image category and familiarity is differently encoded in MFC under two tasks while HA not, both in terms of the strength and geometry. (3) Response type is similarly represented in MFC but not HA under two task types. (4) MFC cell-HA LFP theta and gamma coherence is stronger under memory task than categorization task.
The result collectively demonstrates that MFC could selectively represent task-related information and even retrieve past memory from other brain areas when needed, rather than blindly encoding sensory/behavior informa  tion, indicating that task type configure and shape the representation and retrieval of other more specific information.
